README.md, before:


# Database Manager Web Interface

DBManager (DBM) is a web interface generator that help you to implement a database manager on your website.

Features include:
* Action control on entity
    * Add
    * Edit
    * Remove
* Personalize interface

`v1.3` `24 FEV 17`

## Installation

#### Composer requirement

Add repositories to your `composer.json`

    "repositories" : [
        {
            "type" : "vcs",
            "url" : "https://github.com/.../....git",
            "no-api": true
        }
    ]

Add requirement :

    "require": {
        "hello/worldbundle": "*",
        //...
    },

Update your requirements with `composer update` command.

#### Bundle configuration

Enable the bundle in the kernel :

    <?php
    // app/AppKernel.php

    public function registerBundles()
    {
        $bundles = array(
            // ...
            new DB\ManagerBundle\DBManagerBundle()
        );
    }

Update your `routing.yml` :

    db.manager:
        resource: "@DBManagerBundle/Resources/config/routing.yml"
        prefix:   /database

Set up your `config.yml` :

    db_manager:
        entities:
            DisplayName:
                fullName: YourBundle:RealName

## About

DBManagerBundle is a FOUQUET initiative.
See also the [creator](https://github.com/hugo082).

## License

This bundle is under the MIT license. See the complete license [in the bundle](LICENSE)

## Documentation

1. **Add an entity**

DBM load your entities with your configuration file. You can specify an entity to follow by adding it in your config.yml

    db_manager:
        entities:
            DisplayName:
                fullName: YourBundle:RealName

You can configure different actions on each entity :

     DisplayName:
        fullName: YourBundle:RealName
        listView: myFile_1.html.twig                        # Optional
        formView: myFile_2.html.twig                        # Optional
        mainView: myFile_3.html.twig                        # Optional
        fullPath: YourBundle\Entity\Airport                 # Optional
        formType: AirportEditType                           # Optional
        fullFormType: AnotherBundle\Form\AirportEditType    # Optional
        ppermissions: [ "edit" ]                            # Optional - add | edit | remove | list

By default, DBM load your entity in `YourBundle\Entity\RealName`, name the form with `RealNameType` and load your form type in 
`YourBundle\Form\formType` (so `YourBundle\Form\RealNameType`)
- `DisplayName` is used by DBM for display on template and in url, you can enter the same name of RealName.
- `permissions` is by default full authorized. This parameter is optional but recommended.
- You can call your custom views :
    - `listView` is the view that list the entity.
    - `formView` is the view that display the form
    - `mainView` is the view that call `listview` and `formview`.

<span style="color:#FFC107">**WARNING** :</span> if you do not override views, your entity must be compatible with default views.
To do that, you can extends your entity with `DB\ManagerBundle\Model\BaseManager` class. This abstract class implement necessary methods.<br>
If your entity is already extended, you can also implements all necessary interface :
- DB\ManagerBundle\Model\ListingInterface

2. **Configure views**

You can configure your views by adding the `views` keyword in your configuration file.

    db_manager:
        views: ~

By default, DBM insert the add form in listing view and list in edit view. But if you want to separate all views, you can 
set the options to `false`.

    db_manager:
        views:
            indexView: index.html.twig
            list:
                form: false
            edit:
                list: false

If you do not specify an argument, the argument takes its default value (`true`)
You can also specify your custom index view with the option `indexView`.

3. **Entity access**

You can setup for each entity roles that are necessary to execute specific action or access to a specific information.<br>
For example, if you want that the entity is accessible only to admin users, you can specify the `access` config

    DisplayName:
        access: ROLE_ADMIN
        #...

You can also defined multi-roles :

    DisplayName:
        access: [ ROLE_ADMIN, ROLE_REDACTOR ]
        #...

If you want that users can list and so access to entity information but admins can execute actions on this entity, you
you can defined the parameter `access_details`. This parameter **must** defined roles for all actions :

    Flight:
        access_details:
            add: ROLE_SUPER_ADMIN
            edit: [ ROLE_ADMIN, ROLE_REDACTOR ]
            remove: ROLE_SUPER_ADMIN
            list: ROLE_USER

<span style="color:#FFC107">**WARNING** :</span> if you defined the access_details property, this parameter override access 
and so access is no longer taken into consideration.<br>
<span style="color:#FFC107">**WARNING** :</span> if list action isn't accessible for a user, this user don't have access to
 `.../DisplayName` url, so it can't access to add path/form. Moreover, if it can't list entity, it can't click on links 
 to remove or edit, but, the link is accessible. 
<span style="color:#FFC107">**WARNING** :</span> if FOSUserBundle does not installed or enabled, `access` and `access_details`
parameters will be ignored.

Commit message:

Custom constraints
Now, you can call your custom function to check the access to an entity element. Each element can have different permissions.

README.md, after:


# Database Manager Web Interface

DBManager (DBM) is a web interface generator that help you to implement a database manager on your website.

Features include:
* Action control on entity
    * Add
    * Edit
    * Remove
* Personalize interface

`v1.4` `25 FEV 17`

## Installation

### Step 1: Composer requirement

Add repositories to your `composer.json`

    "repositories" : [
        {
            "type" : "vcs",
            "url" : "https://github.com/.../....git",
            "no-api": true
        }
    ]

Add requirement :

    "require": {
        "hello/worldbundle": "*",
        //...
    },

Update your requirements with `composer update` command.

### Step 2: Bundle configuration

Enable the bundle in the kernel :

    <?php
    // app/AppKernel.php

    public function registerBundles()
    {
        $bundles = array(
            // ...
            new DB\ManagerBundle\DBManagerBundle()
        );
    }

Update your `routing.yml` :

    db.manager:
        resource: "@DBManagerBundle/Resources/config/routing.yml"
        prefix:   /database

Set up your `config.yml` :

    db_manager:
        entities:
            DisplayName:
                fullName: YourBundle:RealName

## About

DBManagerBundle is a FOUQUET initiative.
See also the [creator](https://github.com/hugo082).

## License

This bundle is under the MIT license. See the complete license [in the bundle](LICENSE)

## Documentation

### Add an entity

DBM load your entities with your configuration file. You can specify an entity to follow by adding it in your config.yml

    db_manager:
        entities:
            DisplayName:
                fullName: YourBundle:RealName

You can configure different actions on each entity :

     DisplayName:
        fullName: YourBundle:RealName
        listView: myFile_1.html.twig                        # Optional
        formView: myFile_2.html.twig                        # Optional
        mainView: myFile_3.html.twig                        # Optional
        fullPath: YourBundle\Entity\Airport                 # Optional
        formType: AirportEditType                           # Optional
        fullFormType: AnotherBundle\Form\AirportEditType    # Optional
        ppermissions: [ "edit" ]                            # Optional - add | edit | remove | list

By default, DBM load your entity in `YourBundle\Entity\RealName`, name the form with `RealNameType` and load your form type in 
`YourBundle\Form\formType` (so `YourBundle\Form\RealNameType`)
- `DisplayName` is used by DBM for display on template and in url, you can enter the same name of RealName.
- `permissions` is by default full authorized. This parameter is optional but recommended.
- You can call your custom views :
    - `listView` is the view that list the entity.
    - `formView` is the view that display the form
    - `mainView` is the view that call `listview` and `formview`.

<span style="color:#FFC107">**WARNING** :</span> if you do not override views, your entity must be compatible with default views.
To do that, you can extends your entity with `DB\ManagerBundle\Model\BaseManager` class. This abstract class implement necessary methods.<br>
If your entity is already extended, you can also implements all necessary interface :
- DB\ManagerBundle\Model\ListingInterface

### Configure views

You can configure your views by adding the `views` keyword in your configuration file.

    db_manager:
        views: ~

By default, DBM insert the add form in listing view and list in edit view. But if you want to separate all views, you can 
set the options to `false`.

    db_manager:
        views:
            indexView: index.html.twig
            list:
                form: false
            edit:
                list: false

If you do not specify an argument, the argument takes its default value (`true`)
You can also specify your custom index view with the option `indexView`.

### Entity access

#### Role access

You can setup for each entity roles that are necessary to execute specific action or access to a specific information.<br>
For example, if you want that the entity is accessible only to admin users, you can specify the `access` config

    DisplayName:
        access: ROLE_ADMIN
        #...

You can also defined multi-roles :

    DisplayName:
        access: [ ROLE_ADMIN, ROLE_REDACTOR ]
        #...

If you want that users can list and so access to entity information but admins can execute actions on this entity, you
you can defined the parameter `access_details`. This parameter **must** defined roles for all actions :

    Flight:
        access_details:
            add: ROLE_SUPER_ADMIN
            edit: [ ROLE_ADMIN, ROLE_REDACTOR ]
            remove: ROLE_SUPER_ADMIN
            list: ROLE_USER

<span style="color:#FFC107">**WARNING** :</span> if you defined the access_details property, this parameter override access 
and so access is no longer taken into consideration.<br>
<span style="color:#FFC107">**WARNING** :</span> if list action isn't accessible for a user, this user don't have access to
 `.../DisplayName` url, so it can't access to add path/form. Moreover, if it can't list entity, it can't click on links 
 to remove or edit, but, the link is accessible.<br>
<span style="color:#FFC107">**WARNING** :</span> if FOSUserBundle does not installed or enabled, `access` and `access_details`
parameters will be ignored.


#### Custom constraints

You can implement an actionMethod to process a custom constraint. Your method will call for each entity and must return
a boolean (`true` to allow access and `false` to prevent).

    access_details:
        add: ROLE_USER
        addMethod: AppBundle\Entity\Flight::checkAdd
        #...

Your method must a static method and take in parameters user and entity object. For the addMethod, entity object is NULL.

    public static function checkAdd(User $user, Flight $obj = NULL) {
        return $user->isUnabled();
    }
